Add tax docs (#670)
saleor/saleor-docs: docs/developer/taxes.mdx

---
title: Taxes
---

> Saleor offers two ways of calculating taxes: Flat Rates and Dynamic Taxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saleor offers two ways of calculating taxes: flat rates and dynamic taxes.
```

We have to decide how we spell it, and IMO we have no reason to capitalize it.

> Flat Rates allow you to configure static tax rates per country and channel, and assign them to products via tax classes. Dynamic Taxes, on the other hand, enable you to delegate tax calculation to external apps, including 3rd-party tax providers like Avalara, TaxJar, or entirely custom tax apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flat rates allow you to configure static tax rates per country and channel, and assign them to products via tax classes. Dynamic taxes, on the other hand, enable you to delegate tax calculations to 3rd-party tax providers like Avalara, TaxJar, or entirely custom tax apps.
```

You can configure the tax calculation method per channel and override the configuration for different countries.

## Tax Configuration

> The tax configuration object defines various configuration options for a channel. This includes the tax calculation method, whether to charge taxes in this channel, or whether the entered prices include the tax. The configuration object is created automatically for each sales channel. In the API, it is represented by the `TaxConfiguration` object (see the [API reference](api-reference/objects/tax-configuration.mdx)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tax configuration object defines various configuration options for a channel. This includes the tax calculation method, whether to charge taxes in the channel, or whether the entered prices include the tax. The configuration object is created automatically for each sales channel. In the API, it is represented by the [`TaxConfiguration`](api-reference/objects/tax-configuration.mdx) object.
```

> The tax configuration object defines various configuration options for a channel. This includes the tax calculation method, whether to charge taxes in this channel, or whether prices are entered including tax. The tax configuration object is created automatically for each sales channel. In the API, it is represented by the `TaxConfiguration` object (see the [API reference](api-reference/objects/tax-configuration.mdx)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tax configuration object defines various configuration options for a channel. This includes the tax calculation method, whether to charge taxes in this channel, or whether the entered prices include the tax. The configuration object is created automatically for each sales channel. In the API, it is represented by the `TaxConfiguration` object (see the [API reference](api-reference/objects/tax-configuration.mdx)).
```

The tax configuration object has several properties, including:

- `chargeTaxes` - Determines whether taxes are charged in the channel. If enabled, taxes are calculated and customers pay the gross prices. If disabled, taxes are still calculated and available for display, but customers pay the net prices.

> - `taxCalculationStrategy` - The strategy to use for tax calculation in the channel. There are two strategies available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `taxCalculationStrategy` - The strategy for tax calculation in the channel. There are two strategies available:
```

  - flat rates - the default strategy

>   - tax apps (dynamic taxes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - dynamic taxes (tax apps)
```

I would swap them because this is the naming we use in the first sentence of the document.

- `displayGrossPrices` - Determines whether prices displayed in a storefront should include taxes. Note that this setting doesn’t affect internal calculations in Saleor, and it’s only meant for the storefront to decide if it should display `TaxedMoney.net` or `TaxedMoney.gross` price (see [TaxedMoney API reference](api-reference/objects/taxed-money.mdx)). For storefront queries, this property can be fetched at two levels:
  - product level in the [ProductPricingInfo.displayGrossPrices](api-reference/objects/product-pricing-info.mdx) field - use it when rendering product listings or product details pages

>   - checkout level in the [Checkout.displayGrossPrices](api-reference/objects/checkout.mdx) field - use it when rendering the cart or checkout pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - checkout level in the [Checkout.displayGrossPrices](api-reference/objects/checkout.mdx) field - use it when rendering the cart or checkout pages
```

> - `pricesEnteredWithTax` - Determine whether product prices are entered with tax included or not. If they are, assume that entered prices include tax (typical for B2C in EU). Otherwise, assume that prices exclude tax (typical for US and B2B).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `pricesEnteredWithTax` - Determine whether product prices are entered with tax included.
```

Isn't this kind of saying the same thing twice? AFAIK, the first sentence suffices.

> Additionally, the following properties can be overridden for specific countries within the channel: `chargeTaxes`, `taxCalculationStrategy`, `displayGrossPrices`. This allows handling various situations in which a store operates in different countries with different tax rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the following properties can be overridden for specific countries within the channel: `chargeTaxes`, `taxCalculationStrategy`, `displayGrossPrices`. This allows for handling various situations where a store operates in different countries with different tax rules.
```

### Fetching tax configurations

Below are some common API examples of retrieving and managing the tax configuration. To fetch the list of tax configurations with their properties, use the following query:

```graphql
query TaxConfigurations {
  taxConfigurations(first: 10) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        channel {
          slug
        }
        chargeTaxes
        displayGrossPrices
        pricesEnteredWithTax
        taxCalculationStrategy
      }
    }
  }
}
```

To query a specific tax configuration by ID, use the query below (in this case, we’re only asking for the `taxCalculationStrategy` field):

```graphql
query TaxConfiguration {
  taxConfiguration(id: "VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox") {
    taxCalculationStrategy
  }
}
```

### Updating the tax configuration

> The `taxConfigurationUpdate` mutation allows you to update the specific tax configuration. The example below shows how to set the tax calculation strategy to Dynamic Taxes (in API represented as `TAX_APP` option):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `taxConfigurationUpdate` mutation allows you to update the specific tax configuration. The example below shows how to set the tax calculation strategy to dynamic taxes (in API represented as the `TAX_APP` option):
```

```graphql
mutation {
  taxConfigurationUpdate(
    id: "VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox"
    input: { taxCalculationStrategy: TAX_APP }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    taxConfiguration {
      taxCalculationStrategy
    }
  }
}
```

### Overriding tax configuration per country

> Tax configurations specific to a channel can be modified for different countries. For example, a single sales channel may use Flat Rates for EU countries, but use the tax app for the US. To represent this scenario in Saleor, you would set Flat Rates as the channel's default tax calculation strategy and override the configuration for the US to use Dynamic Taxes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tax configurations specific to a channel can be modified for different countries. For example, a single sales channel may use flat rates for EU countries but use the tax app for the US. To represent this scenario in Saleor, you would set flat rates as the channel's default tax calculation strategy and override the configuration for the US to use dynamic taxes.
```

```graphql
mutation {
  taxConfigurationUpdate(
    id: "VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox"
    input: {
      taxCalculationStrategy: FLAT_RATES
      updateCountriesConfiguration: [
        {
          countryCode: US
          taxCalculationStrategy: TAX_APP
          displayGrossPrices: false
          chargeTaxes: true
        }
      ]
    }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    taxConfiguration {
      taxCalculationStrategy
      countries {
        country {
          code
        }
        chargeTaxes
        taxCalculationStrategy
        displayGrossPrices
      }
    }
  }
}
```

To remove the country-specific configuration, use the `removeCountriesConfiguration` field and provide the country code for which to remove the configuration:

```graphql
mutation {
  taxConfigurationUpdate(
    id: "VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox"
    input: { removeCountriesConfiguration: [US] }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    taxConfiguration {
      countries {
        country {
          code
        }
        taxCalculationStrategy
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Flat Rates
> 
> Flat Rates are the default tax calculation strategy that is enabled for any new sales channel. With this method, you can configure static tax rates and associate them with products, product types, or shipping methods. Tax rates can be defined either as default country rates or can be overridden for specific products with tax classes. During checkout, Saleor uses either default country rates or overridden values from tax classes.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Flat rates

Flat rates are the default tax calculation strategy that is enabled for any new sales channel. With this method, you can configure static tax rates and associate them with products, product types, or shipping methods. Tax rates can be defined as default country rates or overridden for specific products with tax classes.

```

The last sentence feels redundant. We can remove it or change it to something like:
"Tax rates can be defined as default country rates or overridden for specific products with tax classes. The configuration will be respected in the checkout."

### Enabling flat rates for a channel

To enable flat rates, use the following mutation:

```graphql
mutation {
  taxConfigurationUpdate(
    id: "VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox"
    input: { taxCalculationStrategy: FLAT_RATES }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    taxConfiguration {
      taxCalculationStrategy
    }
  }
}
```

> `VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox` is the ID of a tax configuration related to the channel, see [Fetching tax configurations](developer/taxes#fetching-tax-configurations) to learn how to get the ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`VGF4Q29uZmlndXJhdGlvbjox` is the ID of the tax configuration object related to the channel. See [Fetching tax configurations](developer/taxes#fetching-tax-configurations) to learn how to get the ID.

```

  taxCountryConfigurationUpdate(
    countryCode: PL
    updateTaxClassRates: [{ rate: 23 }]
  ) {
    taxCountryConfiguration {
      country {
        code
      }
      taxClassCountryRates {
        rate
      }
    }
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
  }
}
```

In this example, we’re setting the default tax rate for Poland to 23%.

### Assigning a specific tax rate to a product

To create a tax rate that would be used only for specific products, you must create a tax class and assign it to the product. In the example below, we’re creating a tax class “Healthcare products” with an 8% tax rate for Poland:

```graphql
mutation {
  taxClassCreate(
    input: {
      name: "Healthcare products"
      createCountryRates: [{ countryCode: PL, rate: 8 }]
    }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    taxClass {
      id
      countries {
        rate
      }
    }
  }
}
```

To assign the tax class to a product, use the following mutation:

```graphql
mutation {
  productUpdate(id: "UHJvZHVjdDox", input: { taxClass: "VGF4Q2xhc3M6Mg==" }) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    product {
      taxClass {
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Now, whenever the product is added to checkout, Saleor would use the 8% tax rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the product is added to checkout, Saleor will use the 8% tax rate.
```

> 
> <aside>
> 💡 Note: You can assign tax classes to products directly, or you can assign them to product types using the `productTypeUpdate` mutation. When a product type has a tax class assigned, all products of this type will use it, as long as they don’t have their own tax rates assigned.
> 
> </aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::tip
You can assign tax classes to products directly, or you can assign them to product types using the `productTypeUpdate` mutation. When a product type has a tax class assigned, all products of this type will use it, as long as they don’t have their own tax rates assigned.

:::tip
```

### Assigning tax rate to a shipping method

To calculate taxes on shipping, you can either configure [the default tax rate for a country](developer/taxes#creating-a-default-country-rate) or create a custom tax class and assign it to the shipping method. Here is an example:

```graphql
mutation {
  shippingPriceUpdate(
    id: "U2hpcHBpbmdNZXRob2RUeXBlOjE="
    input: { taxClass: "VGF4Q2xhc3M6Mg==" }
  ) {
    errors {
      field
      message
    }
    shippingMethod {
      taxClass {
        name
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ### Querying products with taxed prices for specific country

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Querying products with taxed prices for a specific country
```

> When using flat rates, the API can list products with prices that include tax rates for different countries. To do this, pass the country code for which you have flat rate configurations available. If the country argument is not specified, the default country for the channel is assumed. (See [Channel.defaultCountry](api-reference/objects/channel.mdx).)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using flat rates, the API can list products with prices that include tax rates for different countries. To do this, pass the country code for which you have flat rate configurations available. If the `country` argument is not specified, the default country for the channel is assumed. (See [Channel.defaultCountry](api-reference/objects/channel.mdx).)
```

In this example, we are fetching a product list with prices for Poland.

```graphql
{
  products(channel: "default-channel", first: 20) {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        name
        pricing(address: { country: PL }) {
          priceRange {
            start {
              currency
              gross {
                amount
              }
              net {
                amount
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Dynamic Taxes
> 
> Dynamic Taxes let you delegate the tax calculation to external apps, including 3rd-party tax providers like Avalara, TaxJar, or custom tax apps. This means that your store can use real-time tax rates from external sources instead of setting up static tax rates. This method is useful when your store operates in multiple countries or regions with complex tax rules or when you want to automate the tax calculation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Dynamic taxes

Dynamic taxes let you delegate the tax calculation to external apps, including 3rd-party tax providers like Avalara, TaxJar, or custom tax apps. This means that your store can use real-time tax rates from external sources instead of setting up static tax rates. This method is useful when your store operates in multiple countries or regions with complex tax rules or when you want to automate the tax calculation process.
```

> Dynamic Taxes let you delegate the tax calculation to external apps, including 3rd-party tax providers like Avalara or TaxJar or entirely custom tax apps. This means that, instead of setting up static tax rates, your store can use real-time tax rates from external sources. This method is useful when your store operates in multiple countries or regions with complex tax rules or when you want to automate the tax calculation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic Taxes let you delegate the tax calculation to external apps, including 3rd-party tax providers like Avalara, TaxJar, or custom tax apps. This means that your store can use real-time tax rates from external sources instead of setting up static tax rates. This method is useful when your store operates in multiple countries or regions with complex tax rules or when you want to automate the tax calculation process.
```
